a Philadelphia physician by the name of
dr. Arthur lickin is able to identify
pieces of classical music on a record
just by looking at the grooves true
story how does he do that well I don't
know he knows his classical music row
well having said that there are some
things that DJ's can do when they're
looking at records they be on a crate
dig to identify kind of what's going on
now just for fun let's see we can figure
out about this record first of all
notice we have some different parts of
the record interval shiny here all right
looks like a matte finish here but then
you see these little spaces here and
there they're not really shiny but
they're shinier than the matte finish
part that you're seeing here so we have
12 looks like three of those and then it
gets real shiny again what do you think
that is well where it's a matte finish
that's where there's a lot of music
happening where you see a shiny bit
that's either nothing and then there's
bits here where they're not as shiny as
the matte finish that's probably a break
like an acapella or something so let's
see if I'm right let's put the needle on
the record and let's go ahead and jump
into you know what we think might be the
matte finish right before the break
it comes that break sure enough check
that out now it's not very long it's
going to kick back in and there you are
expecting the music so you're back to
matte finish look closely over the
lights reflecting on the record see that
you're getting sleepy it looks like a
buzz saw doesn't it this record is 120
BPM and it plays at 45 rpm and that's
what it looks like when it's spinning
around but if we go ahead and slow it
down we can see that buzz saw you should
be able to see this on any record that
you pull out of a crate so maybe you're
looking for something with a constant
base beat which this has you'll be able
to tell not on all records but I'm a lot
of them you will be able to now this
record does play at 45 if this record
was a 45 rpm record and the grooves are
the the saw blades were like closer
together you might be looking at a
hundred and thirty BPM record or even
faster my knowledge is very limited on
this I know people who are really good
at this like DJ Julie and that's fine
i'd love to have him to a video on this
he knows a lot of cool things about
records that people normally don't look
at it knows the history on him I'm gonna
get a video up with him giving us some
really cool tips on crazy and things
look at the record itself without even
playing it where you can find out about
it without I've been looking at the
label what you can find out about it
interesting stuff so there's just a
taste of what we might be able to learn
just from looking at ricker grooves
practice and enjoy